now here are the issues with this vegan
community what has this turned into
makes me wanna puke
this is how you usually puke if you know
I'm a nice yen today the kind of one who
bring some attention to a channel that
I've really been getting into the
channel it's called a boss lay seal I
apologize I'm butchering the name but no
Jin is in Mizzou
I do not really give a [ __ ] what people
do it's not the same thing you know I
don't care what other people do and I
don't care what other people think of me
I don't eat me because I would cry for a
week the whole reason why I even turned
vegan is because I saw some
documentaries and I just don't I just
don't like how they treat animals so if
you saw these documentaries and you
don't like how they treat animals not
not we they right what difference does
it make whether they are treating the
animals that way to bruise the food
that's on your place as opposed to your
co-workers play your father's play your
son's played someone else's play you're
sitting the same table with you if you
care about outcomes it doesn't matter
this can't possibly be a cult of
personal purity it can't be about you
and your feelings and your emotions and
your happiness on some level this has to
be about actual animals actual economic
impacts actual ecological impacts
real-world outcomes I was a vegetarian
for 14 years before I was vegan I didn't
really you know advertise that because
it is an eating habit it's like calling
yourself a proud licker of lollipops
that was not a best example it's an
eating habit so the first point here has
been addressed on this channel before no
veganism is not just a diet of course it
is a diet it partly is a diet it partly
is an eating habit as as she says but it
is profoundly different from any other
eating habit because is concerned with a
comes you can state that a little bit
more ambitiously or pretentiously by
saying it's concerned with saving the
world or saving the animals or ecology
or reducing suffering there are many
many ways to say that but at its most
simple and blunt we are talking about
outcomes and as soon as we're talking
about outcomes the whole question is
shifted away from merely personal
happiness personal diet preference or
personal enjoyment of your life among
other things the shift to outcomes means
that it's not just a question of what I
eat it's a question of what you eat what
my father eats what my son eats what
everyone else around me in society it's
my boss at work my coworkers because if
anyone is eating animals then it creates
the same injustice as if I myself eat
animals it creates the same injustice
the same ecological impact etc it
doesn't really matter who does the
eating and for that reason inevitably
vegans have to get organized into a
movement for social change we have to
move beyond our own plate our own Forks
our own knives that is inevitable so
this issue I addressed more than a year
ago on this channel I forget how long
ago it was but in the first video
starting with vegans on this channel one
of the issues I really tried to put some
emphasis on was the fact that we as
vegans in many ways we're never going to
be cool the concept culturally of
coolness in the West really does rely on
this attitude that she's exhibiting here
of boasting that you don't care
boasting that you do not give a [ __ ] and
that is that is cool that's cool in rock
and roll it's cool in rap it's cool in
movies having characters that are
reckless and don't care about
consequences and don't care about people
and don't care about suffering don't
care about the harm they're doing being
heedless of the consequences of your
action is an element of coolness and
boasting about how you don't care about
how you don't give a [ __ ] in her words
that it's definitely part of our modern
Western tradition of coolness and
veganism is not cool veganism will never
be cool veganism very much relies on me
looking into your eyes and saying to you
look I
CAIR this matters to me and I want you
to care also I sat down in a restaurant
yesterday so I forget that was yesterday
presto
I said in a restaurant yes it was just
yesterday and the waitress served me
noodles that were allegedly vegan it's
an arrest a buddhist restaurant that you
know put us paraphernalia all over the
walls and people actually chanting
Sanskrit horribly mispronounced Sanskrit
and you know the waitress brought me
these noodles and from the smell of the
noodles I could tell they had egg in
them and I said look I'm sorry you have
to go and ask the chef I believe these
noodles have agaton that's not cool I'm
gonna say already it's not cool it would
be cool to just not care or have fun or
what-have-you and when she came back she
did eventually ascertain that the
noodles were made with egg and I said to
her passionately because I've really
cared I said look you can't call this
vegan food if there are eggs and the
noodles when you use eggs you're still
killing animals I said this in Chinese
this is about as eloquent as I could be
it's not cool
I'm the first to admit you know and I
didn't plan to say that it wasn't
contrived it wasn't a political strategy
I was just sincerely reacting the fact
that I've been served
something that contained eggs invisibly
so and you know love was disappointing
what have you but it's not cool the
truth is I really care I really have
that reaction I care on a small scale I
care about what's on my own plate I care
about the suffering of hens living their
whole lives in a steel cage invisibly
somewhere far away it's connected by an
economic dotted line from that far away
farm that far away factory to the food
that was on my plate than in there and
also in a sense I care about this
waitress who'd never even thought about
it before I mean she was very young
waiter she looked like she was 16 or 18
years old I think she had never thought
this through before I care about her and
everyone else knowing this stuff so yeah
I care and you're right
what school what's culturally
appropriate is to have this attitude
instead of saying I don't give a [ __ ]
but I do I that's not me and people who
become vegan activists people take the
next step beyond just their own personal
diet they are the people who care they
are the people who want to see that
change in the world on a small scale on
a big scale in their own backyard around
the
old for the future for the animals for
the environment and if you don't care I
think you got to look in the mirror and
ask yourself why are you boasting about
that in a sense
why aren't you ashamed or why aren't you
humble about that instead of being
humble about the things she's about to
go on and claim she's so humble about
it's not the same thing you know I don't
care what people do and I don't care
what other people think of me so again
why why would you be boasting about this
if you don't care what other people do
really I think some humility is in order
I can understand that I mean there are
all kinds of surgeries I don't care
about you can't care about everything I
do not care equally about Cambodia and
Indonesia I don't I don't you know just
this week I did a lot of reading about
current politics in Cambodia it's not
worth mentioning why I have a long
history of engaged with all of you and
you know what if there were equally
interesting things happening Indonesia I
really wouldn't care because I'm finite
I can't know about the history and
politics ever country I completely admit
that but I would never come on camera
boasting that I don't give a [ __ ] about
some human suffering some serious public
problem in Indonesia I would never be
boasting about my indifference and it's
true I care less about Africa than I do
about Cambodia because I'm finite I
can't study everything I can't know what
everything I can't care about everything
some countries and some languages are
part of my life and some are not I can't
have expertise in everything I can't
make a positive impact everywhere but if
you are vegan if you know the harm
that's being done by meat why would you
come on camera and boast as she has just
said she that she doesn't care what
other people think about her and she
doesn't care about the conduct of other
people if you care about outcomes then
of course you care you care about the
fact that your neighbor is eating meat
and if you're not because the impact is
the same the the cow is still having its
throat cut it doesn't matter whether the
steak ends up on his plate or on your
plate if you want to have real-world
outcomes you have to start changing the
world with at least small groups of
people not isolated individuals just
ridiculous it's not the same thing you
know I don't care whether people do it
out of here
people think of me however vegans out
there god damn it you need to stop
especially some vegan youtubers out
there like source shop or freelee the
banana girl who are basically bullying
people into becoming vegans like this is
something so moralistic this is
interesting to me on this channel I have
many many times criticised freely
freelee the banana girl but this is not
my criticism of really I have a
completely different set of reasons for
why criticize really what my concerns
are freely is someone who has come on
camera and said that if you follow her
magical diet you do not need to use soap
or shampoo freely has claimed on camera
that your skin is self-cleaning if you
follow her diet and freely has claimed
on camera that garlic is a neurotoxin
all kinds of pseudoscience all kinds of
ridiculous advice caning veganism to an
ocean of beauty and health that's
ultimately ultimately its fallacious
it's bad advice even if what you want is
is beauty and to lose weight and so on
there are so many reasons why I
criticize what freely does and how she
does it and yet it's hilarious to me
here's a vegan with whom I disagree
her reason for criticizing freely is
because it is so moralistic and of
course that the irony is here that's
maybe that's one of the crucial elements
of what really does that I do sympathize
with obviously you know I don't disagree
with freely about everything there are
elements of her channel and all most of
her career that I can positively
appreciate including just her sincerity
when you see her coming on camera
sometimes when you see that she really
does care and that she really has moral
concern and even if really is going
about it in a totally inept way or in a
counterproductive way that it is it is
moralistic for her in a moral sense
she's trying to make the world a better
place
and even if I disagree with freely about
90% of the stuff on her channel I can
still sympathise with them and if you're
vegan I don't know what can't you
from like you do realize that you cannot
be an absolute vegan ever whatever that
means I really hate this argument that
you can't be an absolute vegan on the
first of all logically the correct
answer is so what okay you know what if
if you can never be a perfect driver
does that mean that you should never
drive a car if you're a vegan and at
some point you kill an animal like you
live in Canada and at some point you
kill a bear it's really very possible
killing bears happens in Canada bears
attack people bears break into people's
houses bears smell garbage in your
backyard and then end up coming into
your house it is not a ridiculous
scenario to talk about being a vegan and
at some point push comes to shove and
you have to kill a bear and then you're
standing there over the corpse of this
bear would you then just give up being a
vegan would you then say well I mean
it's impossible to be a perfect vegan
because when you get attacked by a bear
you end up killing a bear I guess I'll
just start going the McDonald's every
day I guess I'll just start eating the
standard American diet I guess you know
there's there's no point in avoiding
eating cheese because I can't be a
perfect vegan the the idea that that
perfection would be the criterion you
apply to this is already ridiculous and
self-defeating but secondarily I mean
again I assume this person has no
experience with any other type of
political movement or activism let's say
you want to help people in Cambodia and
let's say it's within the last hundred
years
Cambodia's had a tremendously colorful
history you know Cambodia today there
are problems with poverty and you know
sewage treatment plants and medical care
and there are so many social problems
Cambodia is a rapidly developing country
they have you know political problems of
many many different kinds but in the
recent past for decades there was war
and civil war in Cambodia instability of
terrible kind this idea of being a
perfect vegan there's nothing even
compare it to in other forms political
activism you can't save everybody in
Cambodia can you save even one person in
Cambodia if you look at again look at
the last 100 years of what happened in
Cambodia
you feel so powerless as a human being
looking at a real political crisis like
that
what part again today you could pick a
different example you could look at the
war in Syria you can look at the war in
eastern Ukraine can you make any
positive impact at all can you save one
person and even if you can if you can do
something positive you can save a few
people what if your program at the same
time is doing harm is doing damage in
order to help those few people or in
order to have some some positive
outcomes it's very real I mean in real
humanitarian intervention has terrible
trade-offs terrible costs not just
financial customers cost in human lives
where some people are dying in order to
save some other people it's gruesome and
wouldn't there be any question of well
can you be a perfect humanitarian or can
you save everyone in Cambodia can you
save everyone in Syria can you save
everyone in the eastern Ukraine no
question of that
so already with veganism we're looking
at it with this kind of absurdly high
standard if you're vegan and you got to
kill some rats life is full of
contradictions if you're vegan you got
to kill a bear labels whole countries if
you're vegan and you go to a restaurant
and somebody lies to you and serves you
food that invisibly contains meat life
is full of contradictions and I feel for
you you may be very upset if you have to
kill a bear you may be very upset if you
have to kill a rat or if you have that
scenario at a restaurant but there is no
reason there to say well you can't be a
perfect vegan therefore why even bother
with being vegan as a matter persons
that are why even bother with veganism
as as a political social movement it's
just ridiculous if you have a chance to
go out and rescue a cat or a dog or
let's not discriminate a bird do so
because they really need our help so you
know donate some food to shelters or go
and donate some food to homeless people
you know just do something good so again
I come back to this question do outcomes
matter or not if outcomes matter this
woman like many other vegans has to face
up the fact
that this is really just a dangerous
distraction that she's endorsing if you
save a bird or you save a stray cat it's
not going to change anything
not now not if you keep doing it every
year for ten years it's not gonna change
anything ten years from now not if a
hundred people do it every year in the
next ten years it's not gonna close down
a single slaughterhouse it's not gonna
have a dance not even the smallest dent
imaginable
on our culture and our economy of animal
exploitation okay now by contrast if the
government passes a twenty five percent
tax on leather shoes and as a program
encouraging people to buy non leather
shoes because leather shoes are now
obsolete there's no rational reason why
women need to wear high-heeled shoes
made at 11 leather there's no practical
functional reason for athletes to have
to wear basketball shoes made it leather
we can now wear shoes that have no
leather in them something like that
which is not radical which is not people
screaming in the streets it's not based
on protest in a sense doesn't even
interrupt anyone's lives that can
actually send a profound single signal
through an entire society that you know
what leather shoes have to become things
of the past if we actually as a society
whether it's through legislation or
through cultural change or a combination
of the two if we move towards really
making leather obsolete if we move
towards as as a movement really inducing
and motivating people to stop eating
meat to eliminate me from their diets
same ways I've described eliminating
leather from their wardrobes things can
change the total number of animal
slaughtering can decline but the reality
is anyone can look up the statistics
within my lifetime the number of animals
being slaughtered has only increased and
it continues to increase those
industries are expanding they continue
to expand and you can engage in a
[ __ ] you can convince yourself that
you're a morally good person because you
rescued a cat from the street and it's
not it's even debatable rescue it's
really genuinely debatable whether or
not that cat is gonna have a better life
or a worse life after you rescue it
after you chop up its testicles after
you took away the little bit of freedom
at hat
living on the streets to live on its own
term to seek out its own food to kill
rats to meet with its own species to
live among some kind you rescue this
animal to turn it into a plaything on
your couch to medicate it castrate it
turn it into a toy take away its last
inch of Liberty make it into something
that entertains you and makes you feel
good was a fine okay so you do that you
call that rescuing an animal to take a
wild or feral animal and turn it into
your pet fine I'm not even going to
debate the morality that with you right
now but I'm gonna add you to reconsider
how will the world ever change
how will veganism ever attain its goals
if that's your idea of activism how is
it ever gonna be that the actual
industries we're talking about come to
an end that for example people simply
stop wearing leather if that's if your
idea of changed the world is to be
silent about your own veganism and to
silently and invisibly rescue a couple
of cats a year that is really a
dangerous distraction and a delusion of
moral purity that's a terrible stuff
it's no substitute for real activism
it's not the same thing you know I don't
care what other people do and I don't
care what other people think of me
there's a famous quotation from Socrates
the unexamined life is not worth living
as with most famous quotations you
normally hear it quoted out of context
for one thing the original phrase ends
with the words for men so it is
sometimes translated as the unexamined
life is not worth living for human
beings and it's an interesting line when
it's phrased that way because as vegans
as people interested in animal rights
ecology future of the planet um very
often we're asking ourselves what life
is worth living for animals in contrast
to what life is looking for human beings
it's also interesting that the the
original question the context for it is
that Socrates asks himself he says you
may ask me why it is I can't stop
teaching philosophy why does I can't
stop having these discussions these
controversial
topics conversation why can't I just go
away live a quiet life and stop talking
about these things and it's in response
to that hypothetical question that he
says the unexamined life is not worth
living for men in a situation here in
the digital vegan demi-monde the world
of vegan politics in the internet it
really has changed in 2016 and I've
played a very strange role in that
process of change I think I can say with
some confidence that we are never going
back to the world as it was in 2014
today nobody writes to me saying how
dare you ask these questions how dare
you engage in the critique of other
vegans and when this channel first
started that really was kind of the the
knee-jerk reaction seem to be the main
reaction across the board and people
used to accuse me of being anti vegan
because I dared to ask these questions
and you know there really is a sense in
which I could use this line I could
reply to that saying look the unexamined
life is not worth living a virus Yin